Hello, and welcome
to Setting Up Projectiles. In this video we are going to arrange
that, when we click the fire button, we get a log to say that we're firing, so that all the
code is there. We're also going to have this massive one by one by one
meter projectile, that we can drop into the world, ready for our firing
which will happen in the lecture after this one. So, see you in there!
OK, so remembering back to our Iterative Development Cycle,
we spent quite a lot of time on the Tank, and the Barrel movement is far
from perfect, but let's move on, for the moment, because the least fun thing about
this game, in my opinion right now, is that we can't fire. So, let's do a little more with the controls
and setup the firing system. So,
what I want to do is, firstly, talk about the basic architecture of that. What's
going to happen is, we're going to bind some input in the settings, and then,
we're going to, inside the blueprint for the tank, we are going to
bind the fire event, under Input Setup here,
over to, from the input to a method that we'll
create in C++, called Fire, and then, that method we will call
and we'll take it from there. So, let's start by getting you to setup
that overall structure, because it'll be a great recap for you. Nothing complicated here, no real
code to write, and then, we'll move on from there. So,
your challenge is as follows. Setup the firing code, create a Fire() method on the
tank. Make it BlueprintCallable, so we can call it from Blueprint.
Bind input and wire-up in Blueprint.
And then, test by logging to the console from C++. You might want to copy
one of your previous, or move one of your previous log messages, so
that we don't have too many log messages hanging around. OK, so go ahead, pause the video,
see if you can wire that up now, so that when you click, say the left mouse button, you get a log in
the console to say that the tank has fired.
Welcome back! Let's take a look at this from the beginning! So,
Project Settings and Input allows me to come along and bind an action,
and it's an action because it's on or off. The action's simply
going to be called Fire. I'll move through this quickly, because you've seen all this before. Left Mouse
Button. OK, so we have an action! Fantastic! Into the Tank
blueprint! This is no longer just Camera Input Binding, so let's just rename it.
It's called Input Binding in general, under the Input Setup Event Graph. That all makes
sense to me. Let's go ahead and find this event, make sure that that input
that we just setup worked. Search for Fire and there's your action! Now, we
can't bind it to the C++ event just yet, because we don't have one.
So, I'll just save the blueprint and go over to C++.
So, on the Tank itself, after AimAt...
In fact, I'm going to move AimAt below the setters, just because I think setters kind of feel like they
come first. Aim At, now I'm going to make my new function,
BlueprintCallable. In fact, rather than typing I'm going to copy that one up
there. It doesn't need a category, because this is not going to be something that we're going to be choosing
on the right-hand side, like one of these properties
on the right over here, so we don't need a category right now.
And then, it's going to be void. Fire doesn't need to return anything, fire and it doesn't need to take
anything either. It's always just going to fire in the direction that the barrel's currently pointing.
So that is pretty self explanatory. Let's go ahead and implement this
method now. So, after AimAt we're going to have Fire(),
which, of course, needs the class name here.
And then, just a little more jiggery pokery with the
syntax and we're nearly there! Alright, so where are we going to get this log message from
Well, we could type it but that's a pain. Why don't we search all of our project
for UE_LOG. This would be a good time to clear up and make sure we only have logs where we want them.
Here's one, we get the time in seconds, and
then, we talk about an aiming solution being found. We don't need that log anymore, so I'm going to cut that
one with Control X. I'm going to delete the other one,
for the moment, and just leave a comment "// No aim solution found".
Or I just take the whole else out, actually,
it's a waste of time then. OK, so just a quick modification to the TankAimingComponent
there. The main reason I went over here was to grab the UE_LOG. While I've got it in the paste buffer,
let's go and use it straight away and then repurpose it. We get the time, at a
particular time we say tank fires"). Now,
we could verify which tank that is, but I think it's going to be pretty obvious. Unless we get more
log messages then we expect, we don't need to be logging out the tank name, in my opinion.
Alright, I'm going to do another search for UE_LOG and make sure that we only have it where we want it. There it is in the
Fire() method. There it is on the GetControlledTank(), I think that's a reasonable warning.
Most of the time this won't show, because we will have a controlled tank,
and the same there. OK great! So, I think that's all fine!
Let's go ahead and compile up our code,
and then, over here in the tank blueprint, once that C++ code is fired, we should
find that from here we can find ourselves a Fire() method. It's not there right
now, because the compilation has failed. What have we done?
Oh, it must have a category! So, me saying we don't need a category arbitrarily,
it does need a category! So, I'm just going to call the category Firing!
It doesn't seem to make
sense for a BlueprintCallable, but why not? If that's what it wants, there's a little lesson for us all.
So, let's go ahead and recompile the code, and again, I'm going to see
how good the hot load is. Here I'm going to search for "fire", and see if when compilation
finishes at the bottom right, if this becomes available in the list. I highly doubt it. I
think that list has already been populated by the Editor, but we shall see
just for fun! No, it's not there now, so let's see how much we have to do while we're here just to see.
Fire like that's no good. Let's just try coming over here and going Fire.
There you go! So the minimum you need to do to refresh it is re-drag an
execution node line. There it is, Tank is
the target! Now, let's just not brush over that too quickly.
Target is self. That is OK because we are the Tank., it's a Tank
blueprint, it's based on the Tank class, and it'll be calling a method on the Tank.
Yeah but, but let's not, you know,  it's worth thinking about what the target should be.
Great! So let's compile this blueprint. It compiled OK, and save it. I'm going to save
everything, just in case something crashes in play. Now checking the log carefully,
nothing is being logged at the moment, whereas if I look at something, and then click the Left
Mouse Button, there you go! Tank fires at 5.6 seconds into the game, and again,
at 9. There you go and you can even see how fast I can click the mouse here. Not
that fast, about 10 times a, less than 10 times a second.
Alright, anyway that is the skeleton of the Tank
firing. I hope it makes sense, it's very simple. Now, we need to actually get on
and make some firing happen. So I think, for the rest of this video, let's focus on just
creating a feasible projectile and then firing it out.
So, now let's think about the projectile that we're actually going to fire. We need to set this up.
It's going to have a C++ class, because it's actually going to have a fair amount of stuff on it.
We're going to need to control the launch blast, the smoke when it comes out of the barrel,
the impact blast when it hits the ground, the explosion force which moves the tank
that it lands near, all that type of stuff, so it will need a
class. So my challenge to you, it's not a pause the video challenge, it's
just a quick think challenge. What class would we base a projectile on?
So, we're going to make a new C++ class right now. The question
is what? What is it? It is a None? Probably not! Is it a character?
Well, it doesn't need all of the responsibility of a character that's listed there. How about a Pawn?
Well, because we'r not giving it any, we're not possessing it, neither us
or the AI are possessing this projectile or sending in any control inputs. It
doesn't even need to be a Pawn, it just needs to be an Actor in the world. We're going to lob it
and it's just going to go and do its thing, so we're going to make a new Actor.
I'm going to simply call the class Projectile.
Ooh, fun! OK great!
So, a classical projectile based on Actor.
So once that class is made, we're just going to leave it as
a template, for the moment, and we will fill in information into it like
some events. We may have some broadcast launch event type things
and we'll have , as I said, some explosion handling and all sorts of things.
And the amount of damage it does, all of that will be specified on the projectile later, but for now,
let's just focus on getting our blueprint setup. So, we have a tank here,
and we could put its Projectile blueprint here in the Tank folder, or we couild
put it in the Blueprints folder. I'm not really pressured, so I think I'm going to put it in the Tank folder,
just because the rest of the Tank related bits are there. So,
what we need to do then, of course, is make ourselves a new blueprint class
based on the projectile. So, it's all very well having the C++ class, we'll code all the behavior in there,
but we're going to need a physical projectile with a mesh and all those other nice things, the designer
or you with your designer hat on are going to need to tweak. So,
you click on the Projectile under the C++ classes, and you say, Create
Blueprint Class Based on Projectile. That's what we want. OK, so we need
Projectile
_BP and we
create the blueprint class, tell it its in Tank.
Just check it went in the right place. There it is, Projectile blueprint! Great and there it is, we have
a Projectile blueprint! We actually already have ourselves a little sphere on
here. It's a little visible sphere, it's 1 by 1 by 1 Unreal units,
which are centimeters. So let's just make it huge, for the moment. Let's just make this
guy a whole 100 centimeters,
a whole meter, so we can really see where it is in the world.
So I've just scaled up this projectile right now,
and I'm going to drop it in the world and just make sure it's truly visible. And there it is!
No one's going to miss a 1 by 1 meter projectile! So, that's good enough
for now, for this video, it's been long enough. We have two new classes in this video,
a Projectile class and a... I can't remember what the other one we made was.
No we don't, we have one new class which is the Projectile! We've also added some
code to the Tank, and remember, quite a useful way of working out what
has changed in a particular video, is you can save everything. In fact, it's probably safer
to close everything, even including VisualStudio
because it has some locked files. And you can go to your source control system, and of course, you just
go and look at the uncommitted changes there and it can be a pretty cool way of getting a recap. A lot of these things
you can't see, but you could see that there are some new action mappings in the default input.
We made a little bit of a change to the U Map, I don't know why, it's binary you can't see the
difference, I'm not sure what changed there. Then, you can see what we did in the .cpp, the Fire() method,
the AimingComponent, we took out some logs, etc. So, this is a pretty cool
way of recapping what you did. So, it just remains to commit your work, and I'll
see you in the next video!